=== Main obstacles ===
{{more citations needed section|date=April 2018}}
The main problems hindering wider use of translation memory managers include:

* The concept of "translation memories" is based on the premise that sentences used in previous translations can be "recycled". However, a guiding principle of translation is that the translator must translate the ''message'' of the text, and not its component ''[[Sentence (linguistics)|sentences]]''.
* Translation memory managers do not easily fit into existing translation or localization processes. In order to take advantage of TM technology, the [[translation process]]es must be redesigned.
* Translation memory managers do not presently support all documentation formats, and filters may not exist to support all file types.
* There is a learning curve associated with using translation memory managers, and the programs must be customized for greatest effectiveness.
* In cases where all or part of the translation process is outsourced or handled by freelance translators working off-site, the off-site workers require special tools to be able to work with the texts generated by the translation memory manager.
* Full versions of many translation memory managers can cost from [[US dollar|US$]]500 to US$2,500 per seat, which can represent a considerable investment (although lower cost programs are also available). However, some developers produce free or low-cost versions of their tools with reduced feature sets that individual translators can use to work on projects set up with full versions of those tools. (Note that there are freeware and shareware TM packages available, but none of these has yet gained a large market share.)
* The costs involved in importing the user's past translations into the translation memory database, training, as well as any add-on products may also represent a considerable investment.
* Maintenance of translation memory databases still tends to be a manual process in most cases, and failure to maintain them can result in significantly decreased usability and quality of TM matches.
* As stated previously, translation memory managers may not be suitable for text that lacks internal repetition or which does not contain unchanged portions between revisions. Technical text is generally best suited for translation memory, while marketing or creative texts will be less suitable.